tip over tip over tip over tip
getting it
mind control oil again
hey guys Julia here for dnews I
wanted to control things with my
mind since forever
well mostly since i saw Matilda
when I was a kid well you don't
have superpowers maybe
technology can help me out
brain-computer interfaces or bc
i are just like that sounds
devices that connect your brain
to a computer they can read your
mind and make things move we
might seem like a fantasy it's
2016 baby and it's here it's
real and they have many uses
they're often a powerful aid to
those with severe disabilities
that inhibit movements like
quadriplegic injuries or those
with cerebral palsy they help
people communicate walk and even
drive a car seriously recently
Chinese researchers introduce a
prototype for a mind-controlled
car this particular technology
uses an EEG or
electroencephalogram made up of
16 sensors on a cap that reads
electric signals from the brain
just by thinking the controller
can make the car move forward
and backward and even come to a
stop but before you get too
excited the researchers from nan
Chi university don't intend to
actually produce one of these
cars was more practice and
seeing how useful such attack
can be especially for those with
disabilities
although the BCCI tech was first
research the 1970s has come a
long way in the past few decades
they work by measuring the
signals brainwaves get off these
kinds of brain-computer
interfaces can't read your every
thought that they can take all
that electrical buzz from your
brain and translated into a
single command like walk forward
with alarming accuracy but a lot
of what's picked up its fuzzy
white noise from other brain
signals or electrical signals
given off from muscles moving an
algorithm filters the noise from
the notion and that notion has
to be sustained conscious
intentional activity according
to research given at the annual
international conference of the
iee engineering in medicine and
biology society some eeee geez
can translate intention
ninety-eight percent of the time
now people like paraplegic
individuals can browse the web
and write emails by moving a
mentally controlled mouse but
it's still a slow going and
cumbersome process the system
has to learn the patient singles
to both the patient and the
computer learning the process at
the same time so it could take
months of practice and training
because many b/ci spelling
systems flash different letters
on a screen and you have to
think something like yes for the
letter you want the bc i read
that change in your brain waves
so you can imagine that it would
take time just to write your
name
some systems reportedly take a
minute just to type out less
than 10 characters as for
walking EG controlled
exoskeletons help people who
lost control of their legs walk
again but they take a whole crew
of physical therapist to help
wire someone into the machine so
they aren't as high tech toys
but if you're more curious about
the novelty factor this tech is
already hitting the toy market
like the car can only go
forwards or backwards toys like
Star Wars science force trainer
only send a ball blowing up a
tube but more complicated
gadgets are on the horizon
one study published in the
Journal of neural engineering
and that a person can control a
drone through an obstacle course
just by the power of their
thoughts how cool is that we
know you love watching online
but we're excited to announce
dnews is now on science channel
trace and amy will be sharing a
minute of the best and science
in between awesome programming
so check out as science presents
dnews and nine every week Monday
through Friday and use your
Twitter to let them know if you
want more so the power of the
mind is pretty awesome but your
mind isn't the only way to
control tech the human body is
full of kinetic energy potential
energy heat and electricity
maybe we can use these resources
for energy to find out more
about how your body can be a
power plant check out this
episode right here the pzt uses
millimeter scale batteries in a
flexible base to generate and
store electrical energy from
human motion if they implant a
pzt onto a heart muscle the
beating of the heart would
produce enough electricity to
power a pacemaker or a biometric
sensor so I really want to know
use one of these mind-control
gadgets didn't live up to your
expectations
let me know down in the comments
below don't forget to hit those
like and subscribe buttons
don't miss a single dnews
episode